Source URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/CSUEB/comments/1q4iw46/how_are_the_quality_of_the_professors_and_classes/
Source Type: Reddit thread
Document Topic: General student opinions about professor and class quality at CSU East Bay
School: CSU East Bay
Department: General / STEM context

Content:
Original post:
I've heard some mixed reviews and the negative saying some don't know what they're doing or that the school is a joke. Since East Bay isn't some renowned university I wouldn't expect the quality to be super high but I wouldn't expect it to be bad. Any insight would be great.

Comment 1:
A professor at CSUEB explains that CSU campuses are teaching universities, meaning faculty generally teach a full course load and are focused on teaching first. They explain that research universities often focus more on research, publishing, grants, and graduate education, while CSU students may get more direct instruction from faculty.

Comment 2:
A student who earned a master's at CSUEB said they enjoyed the small class sizes, faculty, and student population. They said professors came from industry, wanted to teach at a smaller school, and brought real-world knowledge into the classroom.

Comment 3:
A math major said their instructors have been amazing and compared them positively to instructors they had at SJSU and UCSC. They said many instructors are knowledgeable about current learning methods and also do original research.

Comment 4:
A student who primarily took STEM classes said the professors they had were fantastic.

Comment 5:
A graduate said they had a great experience, most professors were engaged, and the instruction was quality. They said one or two professors were only okay, but overall they felt prepared for graduate school.

Comment 6:
Another commenter said the experience can be hit or miss, with mostly good professors and a few bad ones, but overall it was a good experience.

Comment 7:
A commenter said students get more face time with professors at CSU East Bay compared to a research university, where students may spend more time with teaching assistants.

Notes:
This document is useful for questions about overall professor quality, teaching focus, class size, faculty engagement, STEM classes, and the difference between CSU East Bay and larger research universities.